Collections (#56)
Figura-Goofballs/GoofyPlugin: wiki/Collections.md

# Collection Operations

For bulk operations on tables, the `collections` API is also provided. This offloads large operations on tables to Java code, allowing you to save instructions and (somewhat) increasing speed.

## Elementwise Operations

* `collection:map(tbl: [a], fn: a → b) → [b]`

>   Runs a function on each element of the array, replacing each element with the return value in-place. Returns the table modified. Similar to `<$>` operator in somelanguages.

Reviewer: typo
```suggestion
  Runs a function on each element of the array, replacing each element with the return value in-place. Returns the table modified. Similar to `<$>` operator in some languages.
```

  ```lua
  local tbl = {1, 2, 3}
  local tbl2 = collections:map(tbl, function(a) return a + 1 end)
  assert(tbl == tbl2) -- reference equality
  assert(tbl[1] == 2 and tbl[2] == 3 and tbl[3] == 4)
  ```
* `collection:each(tbl: [a], fn: a → _) → [a]`
  Like `collection:map`, but does not modify the table. The function's return value is discarded and the original table is returned.
  ```lua
  local tbl = {1, 2, 3}
  local tbl2 = collections:each(tbl, function(a) print(a) end)
  assert(tbl == tbl2)
  assert(tbl[1] == 1 and tbl[2] == 2 and tbl[3] == 3)
  ```
* `collection:mapEach(tbl: [a], fn: a → [b]) → [b]`

>   Like `collection:map`, but the return values of the functiom are treated as arrays. All such arrays are merged in a newly created array, which is returned. Similar to `>>=` operator in some languages.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Like `collection:map`, but the return values of the function are treated as arrays. All such arrays are merged in a newly created array, which is returned. Similar to `>>=` operator in some languages.
```
